---
title: Interactive Career and Life Management (CALM) course
date: 2023-12-06
---
<p>Callysto has released an interactive course based on Alberta's CALM (Career and Life Management) curriculum. CALM is not only a graduation requirement for an Alberta High School Diploma, but also a vital component of comprehensive school health education, as it focuses on students' knowledge, attitudes, behaviours, competencies, and values. This emphasis on self-understanding is essential for making good choices, fostering positive interactions, managing resources effectively, and pursuing a successful career. The program also helps students improve their problem-solving, critical thinking, and self-reflection skills.</p>
<p>Callysto’s CALM course aligns with three general outcomes in the <a href="https://education.alberta.ca/media/160199/calm.pdf" target="_blank" rel="noopener">Alberta Program of Studies</a>:</p>
<p><strong>General Outcome 1:</strong> Personal Choices • Students will apply an understanding of the emotional/psychological, intellectual, social, spiritual and physical dimensions of health — and the dynamic interplay of these factors — in managing personal well-being.</p>
<p><strong>General Outcome 2:</strong> Resource Choices • Students will make responsible decisions in the use of finances and other resources that reflect personal values and goals and demonstrate commitment to self and others.</p>
<p><strong>General Outcome 3:</strong> Career and Life Choices • Students will develop and apply processes for managing personal, lifelong career development</p>
<p><strong>Callysto CALM notebooks: Moving Out project incorporating data science</strong></p>
<p>Callysto’s nine CALM Jupyter Notebooks serve as a valuable resource for high school students preparing for life after graduation, and align with specific CALM outcomes in the Alberta Program of Studies. These notebooks offer interactive, personalized guidance and real-life scenario simulations, aiding students in developing practical skills related to budgeting, housing, and personal life choices. (We recently enhanced these notebooks by integrating data analysis and financial planning.)</p>
<p>These notebooks provide students with access to current datasets such as rent prices and job wages, to enhance their comprehension and preparedness. This feature sets them apart from other similar resources. The online-accessible notebooks support self-paced learning and are valuable, current teaching aids for educators. In the end, they equip students with the knowledge and confidence needed for a successful transition to independent living after high school.</p>
<p>One of the notebooks in the CALM notebook series looks at income, specifically income related to an occupation, and taxation based on employment income. The user is shown a list of different occupations, giving them insight into future employment opportunities they may not have known about. One section of the notebook highlights how the user can research different branches of a general occupation by filtering based on the name of the occupation. For example, by inputting “engineer”, the user can both see different types of engineering jobs and the average employment salary of the given job.</p>
<p><iframe loading="lazy" id="igraph" class="post-img-shadow" style="border: none;" src="https://callysto.github.io/data-files/Health/CALM/HTML_figs/occupation.html" width="100%" height="800 " scrolling="no" seamless="seamless"></iframe></p>

<p>After researching occupation information, the user is then able to see how tax can affect their income. This is broken down into federal income tax, provincial income tax, and other government fees. This breakdown can be visualized in several ways, such as the chart below, where the hourly wage is on the x-axis, and income is on the y-axis.</p>
<p><iframe loading="lazy" id="igraph" class="post-img-shadow" style="border: none;" src="https://callysto.github.io/data-files/Health/CALM/HTML_figs/net_vs_hourly.html" width="100%" height="800 " scrolling="no" seamless="seamless"></iframe></p>

<p>Check out the <a href="https://hub.callysto.ca/jupyter/hub/user-redirect/git-pull?repo=https%3A%2F%2Fgithub.com%2Fcallysto%2Fcurriculum-notebooks&amp;branch=master&amp;subPath=Health/CALM/CALM-moving-out-1.ipynb&amp;depth=1" target="_blank" rel="noopener">first</a> notebook which links to the other notebooks in the CALM Callysto course.&nbsp;If you are a teacher who has utilized our CALM resources, we eagerly welcome any feedback and suggestions you may have. Please don't hesitate to contact us at <a href="mailto:contact@callysto.ca" target="_blank" rel="noopener">contact@callysto.ca</a>.</p>
<p><strong>Relevant links</strong></p>
<ul>
<li><a href="https://education.alberta.ca/media/160199/calm.pdf" target="_blank" rel="noopener">Alberta CALM Program of Studies</a></li>
<li><a href="https://www.learnalberta.ca/content/mychildslearning/highschool_calm.html" target="_blank" rel="noopener">High school career and life management overview</a></li>
<li><a href="https://teachers-ab.libguides.com/calm" target="_blank" rel="noopener">The Alberta Teacher's Association guide to support CALM</a></li>